the Middle East is a powder kick after
the killing of a top Hamas official in
Beirut the strike against the militant
group in Lebanon is Raising fears that
the war between Hamas and Israel could
spread throughout the region on Tuesday
Sala ruri Hamas Deputy political leader
and six others died in a strike on an
apartment building in a Beirut suburb
Lebanese officials and Hamas blamed the
attack on Israel and while the chief of
Israel's Assad intelligence service
vowed on Wednesday to hunt down every
Hamas member involved in the October 7th
attack the Israeli government won't
confirm or deny it was behind the
strike the aftermath of a deadly strike
in the heart of
Lebanon one of hamas's most senior
figures was killed by an explosion in
this apartment building in the suburbs
of
Beirut Salah alarri was Deputy to
hamas's political leader
Ismael hanaya and a founder of the
group's military Wing the alasan
brigades Hamas is designated as a
terrorist group by the US and EU among
others and alarri was on a US terrorist
list he had spent years in Israeli
prisons at the time of his death Al
aruri was living in Lebanon as hamas's
kazon with the Lebanese militant group
Hezbollah Al aruri also headed up
hamas's presence in the occupied West
Bank and his hometown was
rala Palestinians in the West Bank held
a general strike following the news of
his
death today we're on
strike because yesterday the hero and
leader Salah Al arui was mared
he is a good son of Palestine who
sacrificed himself for the Palestinian
cause Israel has not claimed
responsibility for the strike officials
generally do not comment in operations
outside of Israel and the Palestinian
territories but Israeli officials had
previously vowed to hunt down Hamas
leaders wherever they
are for Lebanon the strike on Beirut is
seen as a violation of its territory the
Lebanese prime minister called it an
attempt to pull his country into
Israel's war with
Hamas Hezbollah and Israel have been
exchanging near daily fire along the
Lebanese Israeli border since the War
Began this strike deep in Lebanese
territory has raised concerns of a major
retaliation from Hezbollah that would
see the war spread far out across
Israel's northern
border let's bring in Daniel bman he's a
senior fellow at the center of strategic
and international studies and a
professor at Georgetown University good
to see you good to have you on the day
now Israel has neither confirmed nor
denied its involvement in aru's killing
but they're widely believed to be behind
the strike how would it fit into their
strategy in this
war so Israel has long gone after
linkages between Hamas and outside
sponsors whether it's Iran or hisb so
this predates October 7th but of course
after the October 7th attacks Israel is
redoubling or or much more its efforts
to destroy all of hamas's leadership and
particularly important for Israel is
destroying the connections outside Gaza
that have made the group so strong will
it do much to weaken Hamas
though so any individual can be replaced
but part of what Israel is trying to do
is do a sustained series of attacks that
make it hard foras to generate its
entire leadership it's a bit like the
difference between one boss leaving at
organization and an entire leadership
resigning so Israel's hope is to put
enough pressure on the group that its
leadership collapses now there are fears
of this leading to the conflict
spiraling further out of control and
spilling over into into Lebanon why
would Israel Target Sal even at the
danger of the conflict escalating even
further as a result
so Israel has calculated that this is if
you will within the acceptable
boundaries of its conflict with hisb and
these organizations his Bala in Israel
have gone back and forth over the years
and actually pretty carefully defined
where an attack is escal escalatory
where it is not and Israel believes that
this individual is important enough and
such important link that it's worth the
risk in escalation but also it probably
believes that this will not cause a
major escal relation with
his now that you you mention that
Hezbollah leader Hassan nzala talked
today about retaliation but in very
vague terms how confident do you think
is Israel that the Palestinian issue
won't be a make or break topic for the
Shia axes not only including of course
Hezbollah and Lebanon but also their
backers in
Iran so there's been such a back and
forth sense of October 7th with his
balah in particular that this is an
organization that Israel has hit hard
has killed over 100 hisbah members since
October 7th so killing a Palestinian
someone who's not a member of the group
even though he's close to hisbah is
probably not going to put uh this group
over the edge and we'll continue to see
the the very deadly back and forth but
the limited back and forth Washington
had a $5 million bounty on aori at the
same time the Biden Administration is of
course Keen to prevent Regional
escalation what is the view in
Washington of this
killing so I I can't speak for the Biden
Administration but this is someone the
United States has long saw as very
dangerous as someone who makes terrorist
groups far more capable and I suspect
there'll be few tears shed in Washington
over his
death let's turn to the war in Gaza
where does Israel's campaign to destroy
Hamas stand right
now so Israel has made fairly steady
progress in its effort against Hamas but
at huge cost Gaza of course is you know
incredibly uh incredible state of
Destruction um around 22,000 Palestinian
deaths many of them civilians including
children and so Israel has hurt hamas's
military organization and hurt his
leadership but it has a long way to go
and the price has been very
heavy you were just in Israel and you've
talked to to many players there um but
I'd like to know how far you think the
Israeli establishment is prepared to try
especially American patience when it
comes to persecuting a war that is
claiming so many civilian casualties
among
Palestinians so Israel for its own
political reasons its own strategic
reasons is very committed to destroying
Hamas and prime minister Dan yahu has
talked about this war lasting many more
months as have military leaders uh but
there heavy pressure on Israel from the
biding Administration and they recognize
the importance of American diplomatic
support the necessity of American
Military Support and so we're already
seeing some steps to reduce the scale
and the scope of conflict and I think
there'll be further measures to limit
the war further measures to increase
humanitarian support for Gaza so I think
we're likely to see the war continue but
at a lower Pace in the coming
months to what extent um drawing from
your experience now having been in post
October 7 Israel is Israel's strategy in
Gaza motivated by the need to rebuild
the faith in their security
forces so that's a big challenge for
Israel is uring that its own people
trust their government to protect them
and part of that is very visibly
destroying Hamas which is an
exceptionally difficult task but it's
very much well shaping Israeli strategy
are they in a position to do all of
that so Israel can do part of this but
certainly not all of it um it will need
to sustain a military campaign for many
months which it's unlikely to be able to
do due to diplomatic pressure and its
own limits um so Israel is trying to
juggle bu of competing priorities and
its best bet is probably to hit Hamas
hard which is doing but it's not going
to be able to destroy
it so what is the best case scenario
scario then for for Israel and and how
long a campaign are we are we looking at
here then because the stated goal is to
destroy
Hamas in my view the best case scenario
for Israel is a weaker Hamas with while
avoiding Regional war with hisbah while
minimizing or reducing the incredible
damage to Palestinian civilian Society
in Gaza um Israel has a chance at
succeed at these more limited goals but
it requires recognizing that it won't be
able to destroy Hamas completely uh but
also um this is going to be a sustained
campaign in that even if Israel reduces
the war there'll still be lots of raids
in Gaza there'll still be assassination
of Hamas leaders so when we talk about
war or peace in my view it's not going
to be one or the other but rather the
level of conflict between Israel and
Hamas that we're likely to see and for
more on this I'm now joined by our
Middle East analyst shie rosan shanie
good to have you back with us now um
lebanon's Hezbollah militia which is
allied with Hamas and backed by Iran has
vowed that this killing will not go
unpunished Hassan nasrala the head of
Hezbollah is talking right now as we
speak what do you make of hezbollah's
reaction to all of this so far well the
attack yesterday was actually an attempt
to test the bond between hasbalah and
Hamas um we know for example that the
attack on October 7th was not
coordinated between Hamas and his balah
and Iran their backers so in a way
Israel though it's not it's not
officially confirming that it's denying
it's it's a you know but Israel was
trying to test that Bond and so what
we're seeing now is that the response
that the bet that Israel was saying we
know that hasbalah would respond very uh
harshly if we had done anything directly
to hisbah connected to tobala or
Lebanese targets but now we are
attacking Hamas and we feel that this is
going to be something that can somehow
contain the response in the last 24
hours have shown us that in that aspect
so far they're correct we've seen very
little you know there's been back and
forth along the border as we've seen
almost every day for the last 90 days so
nothing new on that front no nothing
extreme no breaking of the uh the rules
so of conduct between these two sides
today so so far we've seen a very calm
response we will see Nala also now
speaking over 40 minutes not yet even
reaching this topic so obviously the uh
theala australa they want to make them
send a message um we are not hysteric
about this we are taking the time to
choose when and how uh to to respond
attentions are high and fears are that
this might lead to a widening of the
conflict would you say that those fears
from what you can assess right now are
Justified well yesterday there was a big
big fear of that and it was coming
exactly at the timing that the Gerald
for Ford carrier the American uh carrier
that was parking in the Mediterranean
was actually leaving the region after
almost 90 days so so uh obviously if the
Americans assess that it's safe to leave
uh maybe it's a good sign that was
happening that decision was taken before
this assassination still we did not see
make a U-turn um we feel again so so far
we see the response is quite calm it's
quite moderate um hasbalah is very
cautious with bringing damage to Beirut
to Lebanon U for the cause of Palestine
Palestinians and Hamas um and so there
will be a response I think there's no
doubt about it but the grand escalation
we expected maybe to see immediately
that's not happening not yet at least
what effect do you think a RIS killing
could have on the war in Gaza and also
the negotiations to get the hostages
back well this is Hamas you know this is
a direct attack on one of hamas's
leading operatives um Hamas is
considered a terror organization by many
countries around the world so they do
not find themselves bound to any
specific rules of conduct they will
choose how and when to respond but we've
seen them quite weak in their response
so far because they're Limited in Gaza
they're under strong you know uh
oppression by the Israeli military in
the West Bank uh Israeli military has
been very hardly uh pushing down and
impressing on that so they have very
little room for maneuver for response
there when it comes to the refu hostages
this is their only key this is what they
say they immediately stop any talks
about the release and they say they will
not resume that anytime soon um Israel
tried points to the fact that Qatar did
not officially uh withdraw from the
talks on the hostages as a good sign of
maybe there's still hope to save
something there and also the fact that
aruri the man who was assassinated was
considered to be one of the hawkish
sound voices in Hamas hoping that maybe
his removal will allow some more
flexibility within Hamas ranks in the
long run Israel has neither confirmed
nor denied any involvement in all of
this but Benjamin Netanyahu and the head
of the mosad have said time and again
they will hunt down the people who were
responsible for October 7th no matter
where they are so why then are we not
seeing a clearer statement by Israel on
what we saw yesterday you know it's
always this uh you know back and forth
very gentle game of deterrence and you
know Israel is is according to many
reports being very active in Damascus
and in other parts of Syria in Lebanon
uh sometimes also on Iranian grounds of
course nothing of that is ever confirmed
because Israel is not you know because
then it's a direct attack on on another
sovereign country here Beirut is the
capital of Lebanon so they don't want to
be clearly announcing we've been that
bold in making that um in making that
also specifically again because of the
very uh tense um move that they're
trying to manipulate here between Hamas
and their backers Nala they actually
like keeping it vague this is a policy
Israel is sticking to for many many
years for Century hundreds of years
several uh sorry when we talk about for
example Israeli not admitting to the day
that they have a nuclear attack uh
nuclear weapons nuclear capabilities
something the world clearly sees as you
know and and Israel has Israel is still
refusing to do that it's part of Israeli
policy to sustain uh some more of its
defense they feel and deterrence by
keeping it
vague and for more Sami s joins us now
he has been following the story for us
from Jerusalem Sami High there there are
concerns about the Israel Hamas war from
spilling over from where we stand today
do you believe this could lead to a
larger
War
well definitely that danger exists uh
but I think it's still early to tell at
this stage whether this is something
that is imminent whether this is
something that will happen I think it
will also uh depend on the International
Community but I think we should also
listen to what
n was saying in his speech today in beut
uh because he was saying that ER
his organization will retaliate and then
he said that following this
retaliation if Israel will wage a war
then then hisbah will wage an open war
against Israel and use long range
missiles Etc that means he doesn't see
this yet as a wage of a war against
against Lebanon so that means that we
still have to see how Israel would
respond to a hisbah retaliation whe
whether Israel would accept some kind of
a a retaliation so we have here a
dynamic that we still have to examine so
far what we've seen here on the ground
between Lebanon and a and Israel is more
of the same there was exchange of fire
throughout the day but this is like more
of the same we haven't seen it kind of
like going into a a different phase yet
Palestinians in the West West Bank were
on strike today there were
demonstrations against the killing of
arui as well how tense is the situation
there yeah the situation is tense uh Not
only was the general strike that was
called uh by the national and the
Islamic forces that means all the
political factions in the West Bank they
called for this strike and what we we
saw is not only the flags of Hamas but
also the the the Palestinian flag
and Beyond this kind of like Express of
support with the aruri and condemnation
of Israel we've also seen an Israeli
military campaign in
tarim both they have two refugee camps
the tar refugee camps andam refugee camp
and over there there have been arrests
and so forth so we still see also kind
of like a tension that is continuing in
the West Bank that was s so cool thank
you so
[Applause]
much